Hi friends
In this video we are going to discuss about passing a string into a function
First let us see how to pass
character by character of a string into a function
So here we have the main function and there we're
declaring a string hello with name str and declare an
integer variable
Next we have a for loop and in each iteration
we are calling the function by passing str[i] So
in the first iteration we are passing str[0]
which is H and it will be printed in the
function
In the second iteration we are calling the function by passing
str[1] that is e which will be printed
and in the third iteration The function is called with
str[2] that is 'l' which will be printed
and in the fourth iteration we are passing str[3]
which is 'l' and it will be printed in
the fifth iteration
We are calling the function by passing str[4] which
is 'o' and it is printed in the sixth iteration condition
fails and control comes out of the for loop and
the programme returns zero. Now let us see what happens if
we pass an entire string into a function so consider
the programme with main function and the user defined function
fun. first we create the string str equal
to Hello and now we call the function fun
and by passing Str
Since we are passing the name of the string, the address
of First Element is passed to the function so here
1024 is passed to the function now in a for
loop we are printing each character in the first iteration
H is printed and in the second iteration, e is printed in
the third iteration, l is printed in the Forth Iteration l is
again printed and finally in the fifth iteration o is Printed
In the sixth iteration condition is str[5] which
is null character
So it fails and control returns to Main and returns
zero
Now what happens if we make any modification in the
function? Will it affect the actual value? So consider this
programme here in Main function
We are creating the string Hello and now we print it
before we call the function and we get Hello
printed now
we call the function by passing str so the base address
of the string or we can say the address of first
character is passed which is 1024 now in the function
in a for loop,we set each character equal to 'a'
in the first iteration first character is set to a in the
second iteration second character is set to a In the third iteration
third character is set to a in Forth Iteration l is changed to a and
finally in 5th, o is changed to a and we return
to Main
And there We print the string after calling the function and
we get aaaaa printed
So it is important that since we're passing the reference
to the function if we modify the string element it
will change the actual value of the string
So that's all and thank you for watching this video